---
comments: true
date: 2011-08-06 23:38:55
layout: post
slug: the-two-rejections
title: Couple of Interview Experiences
wordpress_id: 167
categories:
- Experiences
tags:
- Experiences
- VIT
---

**One rejected me. I rejected one. **This one goes out to all the guys who are still unplaced. Facing rejections or not being able to clear out the written rounds of the companies coming to recruit on campus. 5 companies have come till now. I couldn't clear the written rounds of first three companies. Amazon, eBay and CommVault.

Then came [ThoughtWorks](http://www.thoughtworks.com/). I had nice experience with them. The selection procedure was rigorous. They had a logical written round to begin with. Unexpected, but awesome round. Cleared my first written exam then. That was followed by a coding round in the language of your choice. I chose C++ and they asked to code a very simple problem. Out of 270 people they selected for coding round, around 70 people could clear that round. The third round was first technical interview. The interviewer was friendly. He asked me about myself. He didn't even have a look at my resume. I told him about my interest in web development. He asked me questions on Networking (conceptual), gave couple of puzzles to solve, asked how internet works, gave a scheduling problem and asked about the data structure I would use to solve that problem. Since all this was my area of comfort, I could answer all of them. Whenever I was in doubt, he gave me hints to approach the problem. Tried to confuse me a couple of times. The entire round lasted around an hour. He was very happy at the end of the round. Thereby, I cleared my first interview ever. Soon got a call for next interview.
The second technical interview was something I was looking forward to. The guy looked furious. He looked at my profile this time. Started with an OOP problem. The first question he asked me was to make a computer system in java. I started making some classes. Tried to apply concepts of abstraction, inheritance, interfaces in that problem. In the end he was happy with the solution I gave him. Then he asked me to make a library system's schema. I did that. The questions he asked me next were the reason I got rejected at TW. He asked me to make very complex queries. I tried my level best. But, could never satisfy him. He was a cruel guy. Said that he was done with me and that I may leave. Felt a little embarrassed. That was the end of the TW road for me. TW was gone.

The next company to visit the campus was [Global Scholars](http://www.globalscholar.com/). The written round was easy. Asked to code linked lists, couple of binary tree problems and a debugging question. Remaining were some easy C/C++ objective questions. I did well in that. The interviews were scheduled the next day.
Since I had topped the written exam, I was the first one called for interview. The interviewer was something I had never expected an interviewer to be like. He started by giving his own introduction. Made me calm down. Then asked about me. Looked at my resume. He was pretty impressed by that. The first question he threw at me was easy. There's a sorted array having duplicate values. Given a number k, find the starting index and last index of that number k. I gave him couple of approaches. One having time complexity of O(n) and another having O(logn). He could find some cases for which my code would break. I corrected them and managed to make him smile(was probably happiness). The next question was easy too. He gave me two sorted linked lists and asked to merge-sort them in-place. I could do that correctly in one go with no errors. He was damn impressed probably because he immediately sent new people for my next round of technical interview. This time there was a guy who had graduated from US. He looked like a smart geek. I was kind of scared. He asked me a nice question. Given a cube, you are supposed to color them with the constraint that no two adjacent faces should have same color. Also given a string array of colors. He asked me to write a function for this problem that would return whether coloring is possible or not. I told him my approach and then began coding. I could code this in around 25 minutes. He asked me to optimize the code. I did. He was happy too. I cleared this round as well. All they were looking for were the problem solving skills, the logic and the approach to a new problem. The next was HR round. I was damn happy about it. All went well. But then they called me again, asked my if am interested in testing since they didn't have any more vacancy for developer. My words were minced in such a way that conveyed what I had in my heart. I told him that I won't be able to stay happy as a tester forever and so probably won't enjoy this job. He was happy that I was being frank about it. They recruited one friend of mine who for sure had much better experience than this. Hopefully, I would write my success story very soon.

The next blog entry would tell the placed guy's side of the story in his own words. Stay tuned.

**Update: Got Recruited at Kuliza Technologies. Read about it [here](http://www.aakashgoel.com/2011/11/17/working-already-at-kuliza-technologies/)**
